So SvelteKit uses a thing called
filesystem-based routing.
What that means is that
the roots of your app,
which is to say what the app should do
when the user visits a particular URL,
are defined by the directories
in your code base.
Every +page.svelte file inside
src/routes creates a page in your app.
In this app, we currently have one page,
which is src/routes/+page.svelte,
which you can see on the right here,
which maps to the root of the application.
If we navigate to the about page,
you'll see that we see a 404
Not Found error because we
haven't defined that rootlet yet.
And we can fix that by
adding a second page.
In the file tree over here,
just click the New File icon and
create about/+page.svelte.
We can add some content to that page,
we'll copy over the homepage,
put that in there.
And then just change that select and
Cmd+D to select both instances of the word
home and replace that with about.
So you can now see that we can
navigate between home and about
Unlike a traditional multi-page app,
when we navigate between these two routes,
the content is being updated
within the current document.
We're not reloading the document and
going all the way back to
the server to get the new content.
So this gives us the best of both worlds.
We get the fast server-ended startup,
followed by instant navigation.
Although this behavior can be configured
if you do need something different.
You'll notice, of course, that there was a
bit of duplication in that last exercise.
We had the nav bar repeated in both
the home page and the about page.
This is a very common thing when you're
building websites, you will have some part
of your user interface that should
be persistent throughout your app.
And for
that we use something called layouts.
Instead of repeating that content
in our page.svelte files,
we're gonna create a layout.svelte,
which contains that.
So let's create our layout file.
Again hit the New File icon,
add +layout.svelte.
And we're gonna move the navigation
content out of page and into layout.
You'll notice that it's not actually
showing any page content now, and
that's because we need to tell SvelteKit
where that content should go, so
below here we're going to
add a slot element So far so
good, although if we now go to about
we'll see that navigation is doubled up.
So we need to fix that
by getting rid of it.
So layout.svelte applies
to every child page,
that means siblingpage.svelte files and
every page.svelte in child directories.
And you can have as many layout
files as you need that can be nested
throughout your app.
So if you have some sections of your app
that should have a particular layout,
you can add a layout.svelte that
applies just to those pages.